That is absolutely not true. : 4
I don't. : 6
No thanks to you. : 9
(Applause) : 256
I'll do both. : 4
And the reason I've had to do that is that he ran on the left in the Democratic primary, ran firmly and ran with conviction and ran on his record. : 2
And then at that Democratic convention, they made a determination and they said there, ideology doesn't matter, just competence. : 2
And in the process the negatives began. : 2
It wasn't me that was there at that convention. : 2
Thank God I was up in the with Jimmy Baker camping out and I didn't have to hear all the personal attacks on me out of that Democratic convention. : 2
And I'm not the one that compared the President of the United States rotting from like a dead fish from the head down. : 2
I didn't do that. : 2
But I have defined the issues and I am not going to let Governor Dukakis go through this election without explaining some of these very liberal position he's the one a liberal, traditional liberal a progressive liberal Democrat. : 2
He's the one that brought up, to garner primary votes, the whole question of the ACLU. : 2
And I have enormous difference with the ACLU on their politic agenda. : 2
Not on their defending some minority opinion on the right or the left. : 2
I support that. : 2
But what I don't like is this left wing political agenda and therefore I have to help define that and if he's unwilling to do it, if he says ideology doesn't matter, I don't agree with him. : 2
Well, Margaret, we've heard it again tonight and I'm not surprised, the labels. : 2
I guess the Vice President two or three times, said I was coming from the left. : 2
In 1980, President Reagan called you a liberal for voting for Federal gun control. : 2
And this is something Republicans have used for a long time. : 2
They tried it with Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman and John Kennedy. : 2
It's not labels. : 2
It's our vision of America. : 2
And we have two fundamentally different visions of America. : 2
The Vice President is complacent, thinks we ought to stick with the status quo, doesn't think we ought to move ahead, thinking things are okay as they are. : 2
I think this is a great country, because we've always wanted to do better, to make our country better, to make our lives better. : 2
We've always been a nation which was ambitious for America and we move forward. : 2
And that's the kind of America I want. : 2
That's the kind of leadership I want to provide. : 2
But I don't think these labels mean a thing and I would hope that tonight in the course of the rest of this campaign, we can have good solid disagreements on issues. : 2
There's nothing the matter with that. : 2
But let's stop labeling each other and lets' get to the heart of the matter which is the future of this country. : 2
If I knew of three new weapons systems that I thought were purely waste and weren't protected by the Congress, they wouldn't be in the budget. : 2
They would not be in the budget, but you want one now? : 2
I'll give you one, that HMET, that heavy truck, that's cost what is it $850 million and the Pentagon didn't request it and, yet, a member of Congress, a very powerful one, put it in the budget. : 2
I think we can save money through this whole very sophisticated concept, Andrea, that I know you do understand of competitive strategies. : 2
It is new and it is very very different than what's happened, but it's not quite ready to be totally implemented. : 2
But it's very important. : 2
I think we can say, through the Packard Commission Report and I'm very proud that David Packard, the originator of that report, is strongly supporting me. : 2
So, it's not a question of saying our budget is full of a lot of waste. : 2
I don't believe that. : 2
I do think this. : 2
We're in the serious stages of negotiation with the Soviet Union on the strategic arms control talks. : 2
And we're protecting a couple of options in terms of modernizing our strategic forces. : 2
My Secretary of Defense is going to have to make a very difficult decision in which system to go forward with. : 2
But we are protecting both of them. : 2
We are moving forward with negotiations and, you see, I just think it would be dumb negotiating policy with the Soviets to cut out one or the other of the two options right now. : 2
The Soviets are modernizing. : 2
They continue to modernize and we can't simply we've got enough nuclear weapons, let's freeze. : 2
We can't do that. : 2
We have to have modernization, especially if we achieve the 50 percent reduction in strategic weapons that our President is taking the leadership to attain. : 2
And, so, that's the way I'd reply to it and I believe we can have the strongest and best defense possible if we modernize, if we go forward with competitive strategies and if we do follow through on the Packard Commission report. : 2
Well, Andrea, we've just had another example of why the Vice President's mathematics just don't add up. : 2
I think you know because you've covered these issues, that there's no way that we can build all of the weapons the Vice President says he wants to build within the defense budget. : 2
Everybody knows that including the people at the Pentagon. : 2
Now, my defense secretary is going to have a lot to do with those decisions, but it's going to be the President who's going to have to ultimately decide before that budget goes to the Congress what weapons systems are going to go and what are going to stay. : 2
We are not going to spend the billions and trillions that Mr. Bush wants to spend on Star Wars. : 2
We're not going to spend billions on MX's on railroad cars, which is a weapons system we don't need, can't afford and won't help our defense posture at all. : 2
We're not going to spend hundreds of millions on a space plane from Washington to Tokyo. : 2
Those are decisions that the chief executive has to make. : 2
Yes, we're going to have a strong and credible and effective nuclear deterrent. : 2
We're going to go forward with the Stealth and the D-5 and the advance cruise missile and good conventional forces. : 2
But the next President of the United States will have to make some tough and difficult decisions. : 2
I'm prepared to make them, the Vice President is not. : 2
Well, Andrea, today we have 13,000 strategic nuclear warheads, on land, on air and in the sea. : 2
That's an incredibly powerful nuclear deterrent. : 2
I don't rule out modernization, and there are discussions going on now in the Congress, I know with the Pentagon, about a less expensive modernized land-based leg of the triad. : 2
But there are limits to what we can spend. : 2
There are limits to this nation's ability to finance these weapons systems. : 2
And one of the things that the Vice President either ignores or won't address is the fact that you can't divorce our military security from our economic security. : 2
How can we build a strong America militarily that's teeter-tottering on a mountain of debt? : 2
And if we go forward with the kinds of policies that the Vice President is suggesting tonight and has in the past, that debt is going to grow bigger and bigger and bigger. : 2
So military security and economic security go hand in hand. : 2
And we will have a strong and effective and credible nuclear deterrent. : 2
We're going to have conventional forces that are well maintained, well equipped, well trained, well supported. : 2
And we have serious problems with our conventional forces at the present time, and they'll get worse unless we have a president who is willing to make some of these decisions. : 2
And we also have important domestic priorities, in education and housing and health care, in economic development, in job training, in the environment. : 2
And all of these things are going to have to be addressed. : 2
That's why I say again to all of you out there who have to deal with your household budgets and know how difficult it is that the next President has to do the same. : 2
I want the men and women of our Armed Forces to have the support they need to defend us; the support they need when they risk our lives to keep us free and to keep this country free. : 2
But we cannot continue to live on a credit card. : 2
We cannot continue to tell the American people that we're going to build all of these systems, and at the same time, invest in important things here at home, and be serious about building a strong and good America. : 2
And that's the kind of America I want to build. : 2
I think the foremost (Applause) : 2
Can we start the clock over? : 2
I held off for the applause. : 2
I think the foremost responsibility of a president really gets down to the national security of this country. : 2
The Governor talks about limits, what we can't do, opposes these two modernization systems, talks now about well, we'll develop some new kind of a missile. : 2
It takes eight years, ten years, to do that. : 2
He talked about a nuclear freeze back at the time when I was in Europe trying to convince European public opinion that we ought to go forward with the deployment of the INF weapons. : 2
And thank God, the freeze people were not heard. : 2
They were wrong. : 2
And the result is, we deployed, and the Soviets kept deploying, and then we negotiated from strength. : 2
And now we have the first arms control agreement in the nuclear age to ban weapons. : 2
You just don't make unilateral cuts in the naive hope that the Soviets are going to behave themselves. : 2
World peace is important, and we have enhanced the peace. : 2
And I'm proud to have been a part of an administration that has done exactly that. : 2
Peace through strength works. : 2
Well, I think when I think of heroes, I think back, not presently, Ann. : 2
But there are many people who I admire in this country today. : 2
Some of them are in public life in the Senate, the Congress. : 2
Some of my fellow governors who are real heroes to me. : 2
I think of those young athletes who represented us at the Olympics were tremendously impressive. : 2
We were proud of them. : 2
We felt strongly about them, and they did so well by us. : 2
I can think of doctors and scientists, Jonas Salk who for example discovered a vaccine which cured one of the most dread diseases we ever had. : 2
And he's a hero. : 2
I think of classroom teachers, classroom teachers that I have had, classroom teachers that youngsters have today who are real heroes to our young people. : 2
Because they inspire them. : 2
They teach them. : 2
But more than that, they are role models. : 2
Members of the clergy who have done the same. : 2
Drug counselors out there in the street who are providing help to youngsters who come up to me and others who ask for help and want help, are doing the hard work, the heroic work, which it takes to provide that kind of leadership, that kind of counseling, that kind of support. : 2
I think of people in the law enforcement community who are taking their lives in their hands everyday, when they go up to one of those doors and kick it down and try to stop this flow of drugs into our communities and into our kids. : 2
So there are many, many heroes in this country today. : 2
These are people that give of themselves everyday and every week and every month. : 2
In many cases they are people in the community who are examples, and are role models. : 2
And I would hope that one of the things I could do as president is to recognize them, to give them the kind of recognition that they need and deserve so that more and more young people can themselves become the heroes of tomorrow, can go into public service, can go into teaching, can go into drug counseling, can go into law enforcement, and be heroes themselves to generations yet to come. : 2
I think of a teacher right here, largely Hispanic school, Jaime Escalante, teaching calculus to young kids, 80 percent of them going on to college. : 2
I think of a young man now in this country named Villadaris, who was released from a Cuban jail. : 2
Came out and told the truth in this brilliant book, Against All Hope, about what is actually happening in Cuba. : 2
I think of those people that took us back into space again, Rick Houk and that crew, as people that are worthy of this. : 2
I agree with the Governor on athletics. : 2
And there's nothing corny about having sports heroes, young people that are clean and honorable and out there setting the pace. : 2
I think of Dr. Fauci. : 2
Probably never heard of him. : 2
You did, Ann heard of him. : 2
He's a very fine research, top doctor, at the National Institute of Health, working hard doing something about research on this disease of AIDS. : 2
But look, I also think we ought to give a little credit to the President of the United States. : 2
He is the one who has gotten us that first arms control agreement. : 2
And the cynics abounded. : 2
And he is leaving office with a popularity at an all-time high, because American people : 2
say, he is our hero. : 2
You're stealing my close. : 2
I had something very nice to say in there. : 2
No, let me tell you something about that. : 2
And Barbara and I were sitting there before that Democratic convention. : 2
And we saw the Governor and his son on television the night before and his family, and his mother who was there. : 2
And I'm saying to Barbara, you know, we've always kept family as a bit of an oasis for us. : 2
You all know me, and we've held it back a little. : 2
But we used that as a role model, the way he took understandable pride in his heritage, what his family means to him. : 2
And we've got a strong family. : 2
And we watched that. : 2
And we said, hey, we've got to unleash the Bush kids. : 2
And so you saw ten grandchildren there jumping all over their grandfather at the convention. : 2
You see our five kids, all over this country, and their spouses. : 2
And so I would say that the concept of the Dukakis family has my great respect. : 2
And I would say, I don't know whether that's kind or not, it's just an objective statement. : 2
I think the man anybody that gets into this political arena and has to face you guys everyday deserves a word of praise. : 2
Because it's gotten a little ugly out there. : 2
It's gotten a little nasty. : 2
It's not much fun sometimes. : 2
And I would cite again Dan Quayle. : 2
I've been in politics a long time, and I don't remember that kind of piling on, that kind of ugly rumor that never was true, printed. : 2
Now, come on. : 2
So some of it is unfair. : 2
But he's in the arena. : 2
Teddy Roosevelt used to talk about the arena, you know, daring to fail greatly or succeed, no matter. : 2
He's in there. : 2
So I salute these things. : 2
I salute those who participate in the political process. : 2
Sam Raybum had a great expression on this. : 2
He said here were all these intellectuals out there griping and complaining and saying it was negative coverage. : 2
Rayburn says, yeah, and that guy never ran for sheriff either. : 2
Michael Dukakis has run for sheriff, and so has George Bush. : 2
I didn't hear the word "liberal" or "left" one time. : 2
I thank you for that. : 2
That's not bad. : 2
That's true. : 2
And doesn't that prove the point, George, which is that values like family and education and community, decent homes for young people that family on Long Island I visited on Monday where Lou and Betty Tolamo (phonetic) bought a house for some $19,000 back in 1962, have had seven children, they're all making good livings. : 2
They can't live in the community which they grew up in. : 2
Those are basic American values. : 2
I believe in them. : 2
I think you believe in them. : 2
They're not left or right. : 2
They're decent American values. : 2
I guess the one thing that concerns me about this, Ann, is this attempt to label things which all of us believe in. : 2
We may have different approaches. : 2
We may think that you deal with them in different ways. : 2
But they're basically American, I believe in them. : 2
George Bush believes in them. : 2
I think the vast majority of Americans believe in them. : 2
And I hope : 2
the tone we've just heard might just be the tone we have for the rest of the campaign. : 2
I think the American people would appreciate that. : 2
Because you left out one other exception, the health of the mother. : 2
Let me answer your question and I hope it doesn't get too personal or maudlin. : 2
Barb and I lost a child, you know that we lost a daughter, Robin. : 2
I was over running records in west Texas, and I got a call from her, come home; went to the doctor; the doctor said, beautiful child, your child has a few weeks to live. : 2
And I said, what can we do about it. : 2
He said, no, she has leukemia, acute leukemia, a few weeks to live. : 2
We took the child to New York. : 2
Thanks to the miraculous sacrifice of doctors and nurses, the child stayed alive for six months and then died. : 2
If that child were here today, and I was told the same thing, my granddaughter, Noel for example that child could stay alive for ten or fifteen years, or maybe for the rest of her life. : 2
